docs: add signature algorithms reference (#47976)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/reference/signature-algorithms.mdx

---
title: Signature Algorithms
h1: Signature Algorithms Reference
description: "Signature algorithms used in Teleport."
---

> An important role of the Teleport Auth Service is issuing short-lived SSH and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Teleport Auth Service issues short-lived SSH and
```
I don't think we need to qualify this for the meaning to come through.

TLS certificates to users and hosts that allow all connections to be
authenticated, authorized, and encrypted.
This page describes the various cryptographic signature algorithms used to sign
each kind of certificate issued by Teleport.

Historically, every Teleport-issued certificate was signed by a 2048-bit RSA key.
RSA is one of the oldest and most well-known asymmetric cryptography algorithms.
While it is still considered secure (as long as your keys are large enough),
modern alternatives based on Elliptic-Curve Cryptography offer much better

> performance with smaller keys and better security.

Reviewer: Since the algorithms are configurable, I would use this paragraph to describe when a user would want to configure the algorithm used, i.e., when they would want to continue reading in order to choose an algorithm to configure (answering the question, "Does this guide apply to my use case?").

Author: edited the full intro to:
> The Teleport Auth Service issues SSH and TLS certificates to users and hosts that allow all connections to be authenticated, authorized, and encrypted. This page describes the cryptographic signature algorithms used to sign each kind of certificate issued by Teleport.
>
> Continue reading to learn how to:
>
> - configure a Teleport cluster created before Teleport 17 to use fast and secure elliptic-curve keys
> - configure your cluster to use FIPS-compatible signature algorithms
> - configure your cluster to use signature algorithms compatible with your HSM or KMS.

## Signature algorithm suites

Unilaterally changing the signature algorithms used in Teleport would be a
breaking change for our users, as certain environments may expect or rely on RSA

> signatures.

Reviewer 2: This feels a bit too historical or detailed for a docs page.

If I remove this bit completely and re-read the entire section I don't feel like any info is lost. Should we just remove it?

Author: yeah, it's gone 👍

Some users may also require different algorithms to be used if they are looking
for FIPS compliance or they are storing key material in a Hardware Security
Module (HSM) or Key Management Service (KMS) that only supports certain
algorithms.

> To allow new and existing Teleport users to opt-in to the new signature
> algorithms when they are ready, we introduced the concept of "signature
> algorithm suites".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To allow new and existing Teleport users to opt in to the new signature
algorithms when they are ready, we introduced the concept of **signature
algorithm suites**.
```
- Removing unnecessary hyphen
- Per the style guide (github.com/gravitational/docs), we use bold instead of quotes for introducing key terms

By selecting a single algorithm suite, Teleport admins can control all of the
cryptographic signature algorithms used across their cluster.

### `legacy`

The `legacy` suite identifies the original Teleport behavior where all
signatures are based on 2048-bit RSA keys.
Teleport clusters created on versions prior to 17.0.0 effectively have always
used the `legacy` suite and this will not automatically change when they upgrade
to newer versions.

We recommend that users upgrade to one of the newer suites when they are able.

### `balanced-v1`

The `balanced-v1` suite is the default suite for self-hosted clusters created
after version 17.0.0.
It is our recommended suite for most self-hosted users.
When this suite is configured, Ed25519 is used for all SSH certificates.
ECDSA with the NIST P-256 curve is used for all TLS certificates.

RSA is still used where compatibility with common third-party software that
Teleport integrates with is known to be unable to support non-RSA algorithms.

> This includes Database Access certificates and certain JSON Web Tokens (JWTs)

Reviewer: Since we're moving away from describing separate "[Resource] Access" products in favor of "enrolling resources", and already describe the different CAs [in the docs](https://goteleport.com/docs/admin-guides/management/operations/ca-rotation/), I think it would make sense to say "certificates issued by the `db` or `db_client` CAs" (or one of these CAs, depending on what's accurate) instead of "Database Access certificates".

db_client standby (never rotated) TLS      active RSA 2048    software
openssh   standby (never rotated) SSH      active Ed25519     software
jwt       standby (never rotated) JWT      active ECDSA P-256 software
saml_idp  standby (never rotated) TLS      active RSA 2048    software
oidc_idp  standby (never rotated) JWT      active RSA 2048    software
spiffe    standby (never rotated) JWT      active RSA 2048    software
                                  TLS      active ECDSA P-256 software
okta      standby (never rotated) JWT      active ECDSA P-256 software
```

Each certificate authority is automatically generated the first time your Auth
Service starts up when you create a new Teleport cluster.
If you change your cluster's signature algorithm suite after the cluster has
already been created, new user and host keys will use the new algorithms, but
the key material of each Certificate Authority will not automatically be
updated.

In order to use new signature algorithms for your existing Certificate
Authorities, you will need to complete a CA rotation for each authority.
This may require manual steps to update the trust relationships in your Cluster.

> The procedure is documented [here](../admin-guides/management/operations/ca-rotation.mdx).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The procedure is documented in the [CA rotation guide](../admin-guides/management/operations/ca-rotation.mdx).
```
So readers have a better idea of what the "here" link target points to
